---
title: "Modelling Atomic Ordering and Magnetocrystalline Anisotropy in L1<sub>0</sub> FeNi (Tetrataenite)"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-07-04_icm
venue: "ICM 2024"
date: 2024-07-04
location: "Bologna Congress Center, Bologna, Italy"
---

Contributed talk at the 2024 International Conference on Magnetism.

<h2>Abstract</h2>
In the face of ever-growing demand for permanent magnets for advanced applications, there is a pressing need for materials to be developed which will reduce humanity's dependence on critical materials, including rare earth elements. This is because there are myriad concerns around these constrained materials, including price volatility, geopolitical sensitivities, and concerns around the environmental impact of their extraction. One rare-earth-free magnetic material of current interest is atomically ordered FeNi [1], which crystallizes in the L1<sub>0</sub> structure and is commonly referred to by its meteoritic mineral name, tetrataenite [2]. However, a low atomic ordering temperature and consequently sluggish kinetics make this material challenging to synthesize in the laboratory. Here, new results will be presented examining the combined impacts of mechanical strain and varying Fe:Ni ratio on the L1<sub>0</sub> ordering temperature of this material, which are in alignment with recent experimental results reporting bulk, lab-based synthesis of the L1<sub>0</sub> phase given suitable processing conditions [3]. Our DFT-based methodology [4,5] enables holistic modelling of both atomic ordering and associated magnetocrystalline anisotropy within the same computational framework. These results suggest new routes by which economically viable synthesis of this material could be achieved and are therefore of profound technological significance.

<h2>References</h2>
[1] L. Neel <i>et al.</i>, J. Appl. Phys. <b>35</b>, 873 (1964).

[2] L. H. Lewis <i>et al.</i>, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter <b>26</b>, 064213 (2014).

[3] L. H. Lewis, P. S. Stamenov, Adv. Sci. 2302696 (2023).

[4] C. D. Woodgate <i>et al.</i>, J. Appl. Phys. <b>134</b>, 163905 (2023).

[5] C. D. Woodgate <i>et al.</i>, arXiv:2401.02809 (2024).
