---
title: "Altermagnetism at finite temperature: Thermally induced spin fluctuations in CrSb and MnTe described fully from first principles"
list_title: "[7] Altermagnetism at finite temperature: Thermally induced spin fluctuations in CrSb and MnTe described fully from first principles"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2025-06-13_iop_tcm
venue: "IoP TCM 2024"
date: 2025-06-13
location: "University of Warwick, Coventry, UK"
---

Contributed poster at the 2025 Institute of Physics Theory of Condensed Matter (TCM) Group Annual Meeting.

<h2>Abstract</h2>
So called 'altermagnets' are an intriguing class of magnetically ordered material in which there is a net zero magnetisation, but in which electronic bands are not spin-degenerate on account of the intrinsic symmetries of the underlying crystal structure. In the zero-temperature limit, the magnetic moments (or ‘spins’) will arranged in a perfectly ordered, collinear structure. However, at any finite temperature, thermal noise will cause the spins to deviate from this pristine arrangement. Above some critical temperature (the Néel temperature), long-range magnetic order disappears entirely, and the material transitions to a paramagnetic state. Here, we will present results of ab initio electronic structure calculations performed on two prototypical altermagnets: CrSb, which is metallic; and MnTe, which is semiconducting. We demonstrate that the magnetic phase transition in both materials is well-described by disordered local moment (DLM) theory [1-3] and describe in detail how site-diagonal spin disorder induces changes to calculated electronic band structures. We provide preliminary estimates for the Néel temperature of both materials, and also discuss implications for temperature-dependent transport properties. 

<h2> References </h2>
[1] B. L. Gyorffy et al., J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. 15, 1337 (1985). 

[2] J. Staunton et al., J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. 15, 1387 (1985). 

[3] I. D. Hughes et al., New J. Phys. 10, 063010 (2008).
