---
title: "Using the KKR-CPA and concentration waves to probe the phase stability of high-entropy alloys"
list_title: "[8] Using the KKR-CPA and concentration waves to probe the phase stability of high-entropy alloys"
collection: talks
type: "Invited Seminar"
permalink: /talks/2025-04-25_MuST
venue: "MuST Program for Disordered Materials Seminar Series"
date: 2025-04-25
location: "(Remote attendance) Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA"
---

Invited speaker in the MuST Program for Disordered Materials seminar series. A recording of the talk is available on [the MuST YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/l1DxKTKzDC0).

<h2>Abstract</h2>
So-called ‘high-entropy alloys’ (HEAs)—those alloys containing four or more elements combined in near-equal ratios—are of interest not only because they are well-suited to a range of next-generation engineering applications, but also because they exhibit a range of interesting physical phenomena, including Fermi surface smearing, quantum critical behaviour, and superconductivity. From the perspective of theory and simulation, they represent a fascinating but challenging class of materials to study due to their chemical complexity and the huge space of potential compositions and atomic configurations.

In this talk, I will outline a new, computationally efficient modelling approach developed [1-6] for studying the phase stability of these systems, which is based on representing atomic-scale chemical fluctuations as ‘concentration waves’ describing a range of potential ordered and segregated structures. The approach begins with a calculation of the electronic structure and internal energy of the disordered solid solution as described by the coherent potential approximation (CPA) and the Korringa–Kohn–Rostoker (KKR) formulation of density functional theory (DFT). Subsequently, a perturbative analysis of the alloy free energy facilitates assessment of the energetic cost of these fluctuations. It is then possible to infer phase transitions directly via application of a Landau-type theory, as well as to recover atom-atom effective pair interactions suitable for use in atomistic simulations.  Here, I will present results from case studies on a range of prototypical high-entropy alloys, demonstrating that the approach captures the phase behaviour of these systems, as well as providing fundamental insight into the electronic (and occasionally magnetic [3]) origins of atomic ordering tendencies.

<h2>References</h2>
[1] C. D. Woodgate, J. B. Staunton, Phys. Rev. B <b>105</b>, 115124 (2022).

[2] C. D. Woodgate, J. B. Staunton, Phys. Rev. Mater. <b>7</b>, 013801 (2023).

[3] C. D. Woodgate <i>et al.</i>, Phys. Rev. Materials <b>7</b>, 053801 (2023).

[4] C. D. Woodgate, J. B. Staunton, J. Appl. Phys. <b>135</b>, 135106 (2024).

[5] C. D. Woodgate <i>et al.</i>, npj Comput. Mater. <b>10</b>, 271 (2024).

[6] C. D. Woodgate <i>et al.</i>, arXiv:2503.13235.
